# FPGA PROJECT 

parallella_7020_headless - Basic interface to Epiphany E16 on Parallella-I board.

## Toolchain

Xilinx ISE/EDK/PlanAhead version 14.7

## Target Devices

* Zynq xc7z010clg400-1
* Epiphany E16G301

## Dependencies

* hdl sources in ../../hdl
* edk project in ../../edk/parallella_7020_headless
* constraints in ../../../boards/parallella-I/constraints

## Build instructions

1. Launch the Xilinx PlanAhead tool

    Linux hints:
      $ . /opt/Xilinx/14.7/ISE_DS/settings[32|64].[c]sh
      $ planAhead &

2. From the planAhead GUI, in the Flow Navigator on the left side, select "Generate Bitstream"

3. Answer "Yes" to "OK to launch synthesis and implementation?"

## Output

The generated bitstream file will be found in the directory
*parallella_7020_headless.runs/impl_1*

##  Critical Warnings

The following 3 critical warnings are produced during the build, and should be ignored.  These constraints are auto-generated by xps so can not be fixed as far as I understand.  The locations are correct and agree with the schematic.

 [Constraints 18-5] Cannot loc instance 'processing_system7_0_PS_PORB_pin_IBUF' at site C7, Site location is not valid [../../edk/parallella_7020_headless/implementation/system_processing_system7_0_wrapper.ncf:160]

 [Constraints 18-5] Cannot loc instance 'processing_system7_0_PS_SRSTB_pin_IBUF' at site B10, Site location is not valid [../../edk/parallella_7020_headless/implementation/system_processing_system7_0_wrapper.ncf:161]

 [Constraints 18-5] Cannot loc instance 'processing_system7_0_PS_CLK_pin_IBUF' at site E7, Site location is not valid [../../edk/parallella_7020_headless/implementation/system_processing_system7_0_wrapper.ncf:162]

Any other critical warnings or timing errors are significant and should be investigated.

## Notes

* TIMING: Note that the FPGA-side eLink receiver has a timing constraint of only 150MHz = 300Mb/s DDR.  The FPGA-transmit interface passes timing at 300MHz = 600Mb/s.

## TODO / Wishlist

* Create makefile-based build flow.
* Extract technology-dependent blocks from inner modules, move to top level.
* Replace RTL serializer/deserializer logic with Zynq IOSERDES modules for better timing.


